# Software configuration

## Content of configuration
This directory contains an example of configuration to use the calaos thermostat Hat.
Calaos server is configured with two specific files :
* **io.xml** : this is the files containing all the input/output of your installation to control you home
* **rules.xml** : this is the file containing all your configured scenarios to play automatically. It uses the input/ouput defined in _io.xml_, and the conditions you will define to execute actions.  

Those two files are XML files that can be generated by Calaos installer. However, knowing the Calaos
configuration format allows you to edit manually your installation configuration

## Configuration details

* **io.xml** contains a certain amount of variables in the _home_ configuration :  
  * a **temperature input** on One wire bus. You will have to set the proper sensor id to use it in ow_id field
  * a certain amount of **range input**. You can define ranges that you will be able to use in __rules.xml__. For example, the provided configuration define two ranges for each day of the week, one early on the morning and one on the the evening. Those ranges can be used, for example, to trigger heating before getting up from the bed and before getting back home on the evening.
  * some **internal variables** : those variables have no physical mean, but can be used to enrich scenarios
  * a **gpio output**, mapped on relay command on the Hat : it is the ouput used to control heater
* **rules.xml** then uses all those variables to hold scenarios.

## How to use those files
If you want to test tis configuration or if you want to edit manually your current configuration, you can import _io.xml_ and _rules.xml_ on your calaos server, in **/etc/calaos/** directory. For current configuration editing, please remember that you can import current configuration in Calaos Installer, edit it and send it back, instead of manually editing files.
